Docs: for consul-k8s health checks (#8819)
hashicorp/consul: website/pages/docs/k8s/connect/health.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Kubernetes Health Checks
sidebar_title: Health Checks
description: Configuring Kubernetes Health Checks
---

# Kubernetes Health Checks in Consul on Kubernetes

-> 0.25+ This feature is available in consul-helm versions 0.25 and higher

~> This topic requires familiarity with [Kubernetes Health Checks](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes/).

This page describes how to enable Kubernetes Health checks to extend Consul for service mesh uses cases.

When deploying your helm chart, you must provide helm with a custom yaml file that contains your environment configuration.
Enabling health checks is done via the `healthChecks` stanza under `connectInject`.

> When `enabled: true` is set, a [TTL health check](https://www.consul.io/docs/discovery/checks) will be registered within

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `enabled: true` is set, a [TTL health check](https://www.consul.io/docs/discovery/checks#ttl) will be registered within
```

Consul for each Kubernetes pod that is connect-injected. The Consul health check's state will reflect the pod's readiness

> status which is the combination of all probes registered with the pod. Kubernetes Readiness probes are the primary use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
status, which is the combination of all probes registered with the pod. Kubernetes Readiness probes are the primary use
```

> case as they can change state without restarting the containers in the pod.

Reviewer: nit: I was a bit confused by this sentence. Might be worth rephrasing this a bit. Are you trying to explain why we're using readiness checks as opposed to other kube checks?

> When readiness probes are set for a pod, the status of the pod will be reflected within Consul, and will cause Consul to redirect service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When readiness probes are set for a pod, the status of the pod will be reflected within Consul and will cause Consul to redirect service
```

> mesh traffic to the pod based on the pod's health. If the pod were to have failing health checks, Consul will no longer use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mesh traffic to the pod based on the pod's health. If the pod has failing health checks, Consul will no longer use
```

> mesh traffic from/to the pod based on the pod's health. If the pod were to have failing health checks, Consul will no longer use

Reviewer 3: Not sure if egress traffic would be in play in this situation
```suggestion
mesh traffic to the pod based on the pod's health. If the pod were to have failing health checks, Consul will no longer use
```

> the service instance associated with the pod for service mesh traffic. When the pod passes it's health checks, Consul will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the service instance associated with the pod for service mesh traffic. When the pod passes its health checks, Consul will
```

then use the respective service instance for service mesh traffic.

> In the case where no health checks are assigned to a pod, the default behaviour is the Consul health check will always

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the case where no health checks are assigned to a pod, the default behavior is that the Consul health check will always
```

> be marked `passing`.

Reviewer: 🤔 since we're syncing the ready status, wouldn't we always be able to do that even when a pod doesn't have readiness probes defined?

Author: I believe that is what I'm trying to say : In the absence of user defined readiness probes a consul health check will still be created and will always be passing.

Reviewer: Oh, I thought we will still update it when the pod changes readiness status. I think it's possible for readiness status to be changed even without readiness probes defined, e.g when a container crashes. In that case, we will still update the TTL health check, or am I misunderstanding it?

Author: Ah you are spot on, that is a very good point, let me try to re-word it :-)

The minimal configuration required to enable health check synchronization with Consul for service mesh traffic is:

```yaml
global:
  name: consul
connectInject:
  enabled: true
  healthChecks:
    enabled: true
```

> If the configuration for `healthChecks` is set to `enabled: false` no health checks will be associated with Consul for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the configuration for `healthChecks` is set to `enabled: false`, no health checks will be associated with Consul for
```

> Kubernetes pods regardless of the state of the pod's health probes.

Author: ```suggestion
Kubernetes pods regardless of the pod's health probes.
```

> -> It is highly recommended to [enable TLS](/docs/k8s/tls-on-existing-cluster) for all configurations which use healthChecks to mitigate any

Reviewer: I'm not sure it makes sense to point to tls on existing cluster docs since this comment applies to both existing and new installations. Maybe just link to the Helm value? https://www.consul.io/docs/k8s/helm#v-global-tls-enabled

> -> It is highly recommended to [enable TLS](/docs/k8s/tls-on-existing-cluster) for all configurations which use healthChecks to mitigate any

Author: ```suggestion
-> It is highly recommended to [enable TLS](/docs/k8s/helm#v-global-tls-enabled) for all configurations which use healthChecks to mitigate any
```

> security concerns should the pod network ever be compromised.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
security concerns should the pod network ever be compromised. The health checks controller makes calls across the network to Consul agents on all nodes so an attacker could potentially sniff ACL tokens if those calls are not encrypted.
```

I think it's best to be explicit since as a user when you read something like this you immediately want to know *why*.
